by this time you've probably heard about
something called RDA and you may be
wondering how this acronym relates to
actual students here's Erica she has a
disability maybe it's a learning
disability a developmental delay or
maybe she experiences challenges in the
emotional behavioral arena but like many
students with disabilities in Wisconsin
she's not reading as well as we'd like
her to her family and her teacher know
that literacy is essential to her
quality of life after high school they
want to see her apply for jobs write
emails and her voice to our democracy
Erica's enrolled in special education
and her school follows the rules for
special ed to help her get to success in
the past those rules amounted to making
sure certain actions were taken by the
school but there was never any guarantee
that these steps were the only ones
needed to actually make the difference
for this particular student that's the
thinking behind our da it's a federal
initiative that stands for results
driven accountability now Erica's
ability to read is a requirement in and
of itself schools have a responsibility
to make sure that measurable learning
really happens for students with
disabilities in Wisconsin were focusing
on literacy so we think of RDA as
reading drives achievement whatever you
call it it really just means insisting
on high expectations for students with
disabilities like we do for all other
students the focus on students learning
meshes with lots of other initiatives
happening today in fact the DPI is
special education team has formed new
partnerships with various education
efforts around the RDA goal and it's
part of the special ed teams new way of
doing business so you can count on
hearing more about it and there will be
opportunities to seek support if you're
a teacher you might wonder if there's
anything you're expected to do
differently because of RDA good news the
best way for schools to succeed in this
new world is to use those same best
practices many educators are already
trying to employ for students with
Universal Design for Learning strong
literacy instruction culturally
responsive curriculum meaningful access
to grade-level standards-based education
strategies for family engagement
collaboration between special and
general educators a multi-level system
of support and positive behavioral
interventions and supports everyone
loves to see a student with disabilities
open up options for their future beyond
that schools will also like to see gains
on their school report cards and
teachers will see themselves make
progress toward any of their educator
effectiveness goals that relate to
students outcomes in special education
by working together I know that we can
increase literacy for our students with
disabilities here in Wisconsin folks is
a great opportunity for a new focus new
focus on outcomes and themselves and
opportunities and supports for kids with
disabilities but students
you